Source: https://dns3.cdrinfo.com/d7/content/cds21-solutions-has-started-examinations-provide-guidelines-optical-card
Fetched: 2026-05-13
Category: General Interest
Date: Oct 17, 2002

CDs21 Solutions has started examinations to provide guidelines on "Optical Card".

CDs21 Solutions (Secretary Office: Minato-ku, Tokyo; Chairman: Heitaro
NAKAJIMA), currently promoting various CD standards and associated business
models, has organized a working group to lay down guidelines on card type discs,
so-called "Optical Card", by next spring to aim at sound spread of them. As the
first step, the association has reviewed descriptions of the relevant
instruction manuals attached to the optical cards and has prepared
easier-to-understand "Notes of Caution" (descriptions and illustrations).
Accordingly, the association has begun distribution of them thus standardized
among its member companies. It will strive for the prevailing use of them to aim
at the user protection.

Recently, card type discs, called the "Optical Card", that permits reproduction
on CD players and CD-ROM drives are appearing on the market. It is a medium
devised from the user's standpoint where stress is placed on portability and the
like features. It is already in wide use for sales promotion, e.g. PR and
advertisement. It also has a big potential for the future as a communication
tool for on-the-spot data reception and transmission by utilizing a notebook
type personal computer.

Since, however, these optical cards are not products conforming to the CD
standards in terms of the size and shape, not all of them can be reproduced on
CD players and CD-ROM drives. That is, the compatibility assurance is yet to be
given. At the present stage there are no guidelines on the size and shape, nor
pertinent cautionary notes for the users. Therefore, in the worst case, there is
the possibility of causing disorder to media and drives.

Against this backdrop, CDs 21 Solutions has been taking actions for a sound
spread of optical cards, including technical studies of the compatibility, user
enlightenment and various proposals. This time, to meet the demands from the
users and the business sector, the association has prepared "Notes of Caution"
as one of such move to aim at further progress of the associated industry.

The notes of caution prepared by CDs21 Solutions are composed of descriptions
and illustrations that can be easily understood so that general users can be
familiarized with the way of use while avoiding erroneous operation. The notes
of caution is available in both Japanese and English versions. The point is that
users can better understand the proper way of use if the associated industry
sector employs such standardized notes of caution. At the same time, users may
also understand that there are cases that the reproduction is impractical for
the reasons attributable to media and reproducing devices themselves.

CDs21 Solutions has principal makers engaged in optical card business as its
members. They all are going to employ the standardized notes of caution. The
association also intends to invite other makers to participate in the move and
utilize them actively.

CDs21 Solutions is continuing its activity of enlightenment for the industry
sector concerned (traders, makers, etc.) including media makers and drives
makers of optical cards. To this end, the association intends to pursue the
practicability of various applications. As one of such activities for the
future, it also plans to study guidelines aimed at enhancing the congeniality
between the optical card and drive.

The members of CDs21 Solutions may use the "Notes of Caution", free of charge.
Those considering joining in this association are suggested to raise your
inquiry to the secretary office of this association.

CDs21 Solution's Activity

At present, many kinds of CDs (compact discs) are standardized for audio, data
and picture, respectively. These commodities are now widespread over the world
and are in habitual use. The CD is a medium that has become most popular among
all of the optical disc media.

The biggest reason for this popularity enjoyed by the CD is the broadest
possible compatibility in terms of reproducibility maintained for the CD media
between different types and between different generations of players and drives.
And there is no denying that this much owes the untiring efforts of the whole
industry sector associated with CDs.

CDs21 Solutions, a voluntary association, was set up in April 2001 under close
collaborations and eventual merger of the Multimedia CD Consortium and the
Orange Forum, both of which were disbanded to this end. CDs21 Solutions is the
largest organization of its kind at this stage, covering the entire CD related
industry in a transverse and compound manner. It is actively working for the aim
of contributing to the associated industry sector and the users on issues of
improving the compatibility among application product groups including media
(discs) that conform to various CD standards, hardware, software products,
contents making, while devoting to further spread and promotion of the relevant
servicing.

At present, the membership of CDs21 Solutions is 79 companies (53 domestic and
26 overseas).

For inquiry/membership participation, please contact:
Secretary Office, CDs21 Solutions
c/o Philips Japan, Ltd., RIVAGE SHINAGAWA 10F,
4-1-8 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-0075, Japan
Tel: +81-3-3740-4592    Fax: +81-3-3740-5152
In charge: Wataru Fujihira
